---
id: rainbow-philadelphia
name: Philadelphia
shortcodes: ["Rph"]
categories: ["everyone"]
flag:
  stripes:
    [
      "#000000",
      "#794e10",
      "#ff0000",
      "#ff8e00",
      "#ffff00",
      "#008e00",
      "#004cff",
      "#8e008e",
    ]
background:
  light: ["oklch(85% 0.045 30)", "oklch(85% 0.045 180)", "oklch(85% 0.045 330)"]
  dark: ["oklch(40% 0.065 30)", "oklch(40% 0.065 180)", "oklch(40% 0.065 330)"]
---

In 2017, the city of Philadelphia celebrated the place that people of color have
within queer spaces with a new flag. The new flag adds a black and a brown
stripe above the common rainbow flag to bring visibility to the discrimination
and other issues that queer people of color face.

---

# Flag History

For its 2017 pride month celebrations, Philadelphia's Office of LGBT Affairs
sought to create a flag design that recognised queer people of color explicitly.
This came after racial discrimination in the city's "gayborhood", including a
nightclub owner using racial slurs and banning specific items of clothing to
target people of color. The new flag, and accompanying marketing campaign, set
out to make these issues public.

The city also backed up their words by passing a bill that would heavily
penalise businesses that discriminate against employees and customers. In severe
cases, this includes issuing cease-operations orders to the business.

## Variations

While there aren't and major flags that continue to include the black and brown
stripes along the top of the flag, the inclusion of these colors has continued
in later flag designs. Most notably, the [Progress flag](./progress) has them
prominently placed on the chevron.

A previous variation of the rainbow flag had included a black stripe along the
bottom of the flag for those lost in the AIDS epidemic. The black stripe in the
Philadelphia flag is not stated to be a call back to that flag, as the focus of
the flag is on the people of color.

# Sources and acknowledgements

- [Rainbow Icon Archive - Icons for the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Community](https://web.archive.org/web/20070820011652/http://jasewells.com/gayicons/)
  _archive_
- [Phillyâ€™s Pride Flag to Get Two New Stripes: Black and Brown - Philadelphia Magazine](https://www.phillymag.com/news/2017/06/08/philly-pride-flag-black-brown)
- [More Color More Pride](https://hellotierney.com/work/more-color-more-pride/)
